How a translation process can drive innovation in the help center

After doing a Translation Quick Scan from Anouk&Co, the approach to translation of EasyLMS changed radically. 
By looking at the bottlenecks in the translation, they found out that there were undetected issues in creating the content.
Now they look at how to create their content in a scalable way, so that doing that for multiple languages becomes a piece of cake. 

EasyLMS is a company that has adopted continuous improvement by applying the Improvement Kata from Toyota for approximately a year now. 
In this time they moved to single item deploy and are releasing numerous features a day. They run PDCA cycles every day and only solve root causes, 
instead of symptoms. This brought them to be one of the best LMS software applications, according to ... 

Obviously, in these times where COVID-19 is causing a huge demand for online trainings, the demand for LMS software has grown. 
This growth in usage has also had its impact on the support department of EasyLMS. Their aim is to have most of the support handled through self service. 
The lack of the support articles in multiple languages was seen as one of the main bottlenecks. 

So Jeroen Guldemond decided to call in an expert, and asked Anouk&Co to run a quickscan, asking for more clarity on the decision making. 

“In order to help our non-English clients, our support consultants already suspected that a translated version of our support articles would be of great help, so they started sending out out these articles using Google Translate. Of course they did this manually, so this was quite time consuming.
Still, making the decision of structurally translating everything was not easy, because we assumed we needed human translators and a project manager to run these translations and we would have to hire someone new to do this.
When I hired Anouk&Co, I expected them to just make the calculations what it would cost so I could go to my fellow decision makers and have a clear picture to present. It worked out quite differently...”

The quick scan revealed that what was considered most important for this new process was speed and scalability. 
Given the fast turnaround time of the deploys, and the number of changes that follow in the support content, 
the time to translate should be minimal, as it would severely affect the effectivity if content was not updated. 
Also, there were restrictions on the impact on the organization. 
It was not a given that adding a complex process that would need additional people would result in a positive ROI. 
Of course, at the same time, the support articles would need to be effective, which should result in an increase of read articles and a decrease of tickets, 
specifically from clients in non-English speaking countries.  

The quick scan also showed that there were high expectations of the effectivity if human translators were used instead of Google Translate. 
This was mostly related to the fact that there were references in the articles to the software application, and a general belief that Machine Translation is never really good enough. 

As said before, EasyLMS has experimenting and improving in their DNA and is therefore very mature in removing waste. 
Scalability, speed and safety for people are their top priorities. This is why they can offer their clients the best product for the best price.

Therefore, the approach that Anouk&Co advised was is to first experiment what happens if you prevent any waste to be added to this process. 
This means youw will do the simplest thing that could possibly work, detect the bottlenecks if it does not, 
and solve these bottlenecks by assessing the root cause. 

This meant that we advised to work from the assumption that Machine Translation could be used for translating these articles, 
until proven differently. And that if there were bottlenecks, first look at how scalable the creation of source content really was, before assuming human translators were the answer. 

Of course we gave a few examples what to look for when creating the source. 
First, we showed how paid Machine Translation engines were sufficient for this content and provided very good translations.
A number of sentences didn't come out well, and when we examined these, it appeared the English was not well-formed. When these were changed this had an immediate impact on the 
all translations. 

Second, we suspected that screenshots would be a major bottleneck. We advised to look into automatic screenshotting and dynamic linking, so that screenshots would be updated for all languages automatically, including English.

Third, the references to the software could turn into a bottleneck, which is not so easy to solve. Short term solutions include things like circumventing using these references and letting the screenshots speak for themselves or adding terminology lists tot the MT engine. 
However, looking into the root cause of this is the fact that the same content is stored in different places. 
If we look at it from a single source perspective, these references should always be connected to the place they originate, 
so that any changes, in whatever language, will be updated as soon as they are changed in the software application. 

The results
When Jeroen started looking at the process from this perspective, the real cause of the problems surfaced. 
He even went one step further, adding content creation to the process of software development. 
This lead to much faster publication of the source content. When first, there was a backlog of at least two weeks before new functionalities would be supported in the help articles, 
this is now available for their customers when it is deployed. When the automation of the process is complete this will also be the case for the language version.

Results on increase of the level of self service of EasyLMS customers, both in English and other languages are expected to come in at the end of the month. 
But already, waste has been reduced in creating the source content. It has become highly scalable, there is low cost of change and time to market is very fast. 

There is now a clear picture of what must be automated and with a relatively simple process, no waste will be added when scaling up the amount of content and languages.

What would have happened without the quick scan? 
Jeroen: "we were about to send the content to translators. However, we would have run into the exact same problems as we do with Machine Translation, but then expecting translators to solve them. 
Maybe even thinking our translators were not good enough and that would be the cause of the lack of effectiveness of our content. 
Looking at the process this way really made it clear where to start and how to solve the issues. 
Not only did this save us thousands of euros, it also prevented us from going into an extremely complex process where problems would be solved in all the wrong places."

On machine translation
It could very well be that eventually it appears that human translators are necessary in this process. It is by no means my intention to discard the value of human translators. 
However, taking Machine Translation as a starting point, makes you really look at your process as a whole, 
because you cannot blame anyone for mistakes in your translations that are really caused by the way you create your source content. 
The bottlenecks that were detected in this process were by no means solvable in a controllable way by translators, not even the references to the software application. 
Still, it happens a lot that translators are blamed for lack of effectivity (if at all measured) where really what is broken is the process. 






inleiding:
- EasyLMS is een bedrijf dat zeer getraind is in het toepassen van continuous process improvement en het opzetten van PDCA cycles. 
Is flexibel en houdt ervan de root cause te vinden en op te lossen, in plaats van doekjes voor het bloeden. 
Deze aanpak heeft ze in korte tijd gebracht tot de best beoordeelde LMS-en van de wereld, bijvoorbeeld door softwareworld. 
- quick scan over meertaligheid
- vraag: we weten dat we willen vertalen (self service, hogere conversie) maar we vrezen voor de ROI en uitvoerbaarheid. Help!


Verrassing: 
Uit de quick scan kwamen de volgende bottlenecks naar boven: 
- de helpartikelen in de brontaal bevatten screenshots. Deze worden handmatig gemaakt. Dit is voor de 3 talen die in de eerste fase opgeleverd moeten worden al bijna niet te doen, laat staan als het gaat schalen naar de 25 talen waarin EasyLMS gepubliceerd wordt. 
- de helpartikelen bevatten verwijzingen naar de applicatie in de tekst. Dit is een probleem voor machinevertalingen, 
maar ook als je menselijke vertalers inzet moet je veel inregelen om ze van de juiste context te voorzien. 
- De applicatie verandert voortdurend door de snelle doorlooptijd van releases. Het aanpassen van de content loopt voortdurend achter op 
de snelheid van development. 

uitkomst quick scan: 
- Wens van hoge ROI, schaalbaarheid (van talen en hoeveelheid content) en snelheid is het voor deze casus bijna onvermijdelijk om met Machine Translation te werken. 
Toevoegen van vertalers maakt het benodigde proces en de bijbehorende infrastructuur vele malen complexer. 
- Tegelijk moet de content wel effectief zijn: self support helpdesk en hogere conversie. 
 
Advies: 
testen wat er gebeurt met de effectiviteit van de content als dit met top of the bill machinevertalingen gebeurt. 
Wat zijn dan de bottlenecks en hoe is dit oplosbaar - zonder mensen toe te voegen aan het proces? 

Oplossingen:  
- automatisch video's en screenshots genereren van de software in elke taal en alleen algemene tekst, zonder verwijzing naar applicatie
- bij feedback van users op de machinevertalingen de broncontent onder de loep nemen en niet de vertaling aanpassen

Resultaat:
- gaan we je nog vertellen! :)

Conclusie:
- de bottlenecks die je tegenkomt bij vertalen worden vaak opgelost door het vertaalproces aan te passen. Dit creert vaak onnodige complexiteit en levert 
vervolgens ook nog niet het gewenste resultaat. 
- door het gehele proces onder de loep te nemen - dat is dus inclusief het creeren van de content - en bij alle bottlenecks te onderzoeken wat de echte
root cause is EN harde eisen te stellen aan de schaalbaarheid van het proces, kom je tot creatieve ideeen die niet alleen leiden tot verbeteringen in je vertaalproces,
maar tot een snel en schaalbaar proces voor de gehele meertalige contentcreatie. 
